CEDAR MOUNTAIN NEWS FOR 8-14-2025


HUNGER COALITION MONTHLY FOOD DISTRIBUTION SITES

1st Thursday, Old GO Grocery parking lot (1232 Asheville Hwy), 2:30-4:00 pm.

2nd Thursday, Rosman Town Hall Pavilions, 2:30-4:00 pm.

3rd Thursday, Cedar Mountain Community Center, 2:30-4:00 pm.

4th Thursday, Quebec Community Center, 2:30-4:00 pm.

 

FAITH MEMORIAL CHAPEL welcomes folks of all denominations to our services, held
on Sundays at 11:00 AM.  We meet only in the summer and have no membership roll,
so you won’t feel like a guest.  Each Sunday, we have clergy from different
churches that visit us to lead the service and we are blessed to also have great
music to accompany the great message!  

On August 17th, we welcome the Reverend
Thomas C. Brown to lead our worship service and proclaim the gospel. Rev. Thomas
“T” Brown is the Rector of St. Paul’s Anglican Church in Greenville, South
Carolina.  

This Sunday, we also welcome Kelsie Barrineau. Kelsie Barrineau is a
rising senior at Furman University, studying Vocal Performance under Dr. Bronwen
Forbay for a Bachelor’s of Music as well as a minor in Linguistics. She is a
soprano with a passion for singing Opera and Classical music. She currently
sings as part of the Furman Singers Choir and the Sanctuary Choir of First
Baptist Church of Greenville as a Choral Herring Scholar. 

Submitted by Earle Oxner

 

SEE OFF HOMESTEADERS COMMUNITY CENTER by Doug Poad

Greetings, neighbors and friends.

As summer marches on… please join us for our August potluck this Sunday, August
17th.

 

Our program speaker will be Maury Bandurraga.  It promises to be a very colorful
program, as she tells us about how she grows and maintains beautiful Dahlias
like this at their place in Slick Rock.

 

Bring a friend and bring your dish at 5:30 pm and we’ll socialize for a bit
before eating at 6:00 pm. Michael & Nancy Rosenthal, Dana Greenberg, and Lesin
Dippold are our hosts for this potluck (thanks, folks).  Bring your own plates &
utensils if you are of a mind to do so – it reduces our contributions to the
landfill. 

 

If you haven’t seen any of the videos of the work to rebuild/repair Becky
Mountain Road that Heath Cowart and Melinda Hendershott have been making, you
can see them here.  The first one is after the storm and the others show several
days in the life of the project.  It’s still scheduled to be open for traffic in
early-mid October.  We plan on having some sort of event to celebrate regaining
this convenient way on and off our mountain, so watch for more info about it.

 

·       10 FEB 25 - Five months after the storm -
www.youtube.com/watch?v=hKUHJ1q6ZQo

·       22 July 25 - The day repair work started -
www.youtube.com/watch?v=hYlaD56GWZ4

·       24 July 25 - Two days and showing progress -
www.youtube.com/watch?v=5DgcDzQxqlY

·       25 July 25 - Not sure how the structure will work yet -
www.youtube.com/watch?v=QKj52wgE7CI

·       29 July 25 - Lots of drilling and pumping of concrete -
www.youtube.com/watch?v=F6p9eZjgm74

·       30 July 25 - Soil nailing continues -
www.youtube.com/watch?v=zE025A-2GG8

 

If you see work starting across from Holden cemetery on the land owned by
Transylvania Habitat for Humanity, it’s to start grading for two homes that will
be built for families displaced by Hurricane Helene.  We’ll get word out when
it’s possible to go help build them and welcome the new neighbors to our
community.  In the meantime, Habitat has also started prep work on the
Leviskia’s house a little down from the Slick Rock mailbox row.

 

Doug Poad 828-883-5673 (H) / 330-323-0316 (C)

 

SUPPORT & RENEWAL AT TERRA NOVA CENTER:

The Terra Nova Center, a 501(c) (3) nonprofit organization, is hosting a
fundraiser Indian dinner and cultural event on August 23rd.  Located on
Reasonover Road in Cedar Mountain, the center sustained significant damage from
Hurricane Helene, including building damage and over 100 fallen trees across the
property. Your support is vital to clear and restore the trails for visitors,
repair the cherished spaces, and to ensure the continued preservation of the
105-year-old chapel. A dedicated team is honored to continue serving this sacred
land that touches everyone who visits.

Fundraiser Indian Dinner and Cultural Event itinerary options:

This special evening will nourish your body, mind, and soul, leaving you with a
truly enriching experience. Joyce Baila shares, "The sound bath, Indian food
presentation with a delicious buffet dinner and Tibetan art presentation
culminating with a heartwarming dance concert moved me to tears! The entire
experience was magical and we all felt it."


Evening Program: 2:30 - 7:30 PM ($65/guest) 2:30 - 4:15 PM | Sound Bath: A
deeply relaxing session led by Kim Johnson. 4:30 - 5:30 PM | Indian Dinner: A
captivating food presentation and delicious Indian buffet dinner by Tanamayi.
5:45 - 6:45 PM | Perspectives on reality through Art: A concise exposure to
shared truth through the medium of Buddhist Art by Yogesh. 7:00 - 7:30 PM |
Dance Concert: A heartwarming Indian classical fusion dance concert by Tanamayi.
Full-Day Experience: ($85/guest) In addition to the evening program, this
full-day option includes a variety of fun workshops and activities, including a
special creative workshop offered by Melissa Martin Julien, the founder of
Properflower.com; but please feel free to attend only the workshops that fit
your schedule.


10:00 - 11:30 AM | Classical Yoga: Learn Brain Yoga and gentle Breathing
practice to help with Alzheimer's, ADHD and anxiety, a session led by Yogesh and
Tanamayi.

11:30 AM - 1:00 PM | Lake Activities & Guided Hike: Enjoy leisurely lake
activities facilitated by Joyce Baila and a guided hike by Kamala Beissinger in
the property. 1:00 - 2:00 PM | Foraged Woodlands Design: Join Melissa Martin
Julien from Properflower.com for an exciting creative workshop.

Complimentary for all: 8:00-9:00 PM | Campfire, storytelling and star gazing if
weather permits. Dress Code:

10:00-2:30 pm | Morning Activities: Casual comfortable clothes, bringing your
options for yoga, swimming, paddle boarding, kayaking and guided hike.

2:30-7:30 pm | Evening Program: Festive mode like club house dinner attire but
not mandatory.

Your participation will help us restore Terra Nova's beautiful space and
continue its legacy of inspiration, healing and support of local artists.

To register, please contact 615-900-4320 | info@terranovacenter.org |
originintegrative@gmail.com.

 

ROCKY HILL BAPTIST CHURCH

SINGING SCHOOLS AND CONVENTIONS submitted by Patricia Stahl

Homecoming will be held on Sunday, August 24 at 10:30 am.  Our guest singers
this year are brothers Travis, Justin, and Jared Burns and their father Jim
Burns of South Carolina. They are leaders of music in their churches and
descendants of Street Burns, one of the original trustees of Rocky Hill Baptist
Church.  Dr. Mike Whitson, also a descendant of Street Burns, will bring the
message.  In the early 1900’s, all day or week long singing schools were held in
the mountain churches for young and old alike. These schools taught the
“Rudiments of Music, Sight Singing, Ear Training, Voice Culture, Harmony and
Composition, and Method of Teaching and Conducting.” This description of the
instruction was taken from a first-grade certificate of proficiency awarded to
Miss Nellie Lee of Rocky Hill Baptist Church in Cedar Mountain in February of
1916 by the Eagle’s Normal Musical Institute. Interdenominational singing
conventions of the county church choirs were also held with J.W. Burns of Cedar
Mountain presiding over the competitions between the choirs. Mr. Burns also
taught singing schools in the churches of the area. In May of 1921, an all-day
open air singing for Carr’s Hill, Glady Branch and Rocky Hill Baptist Churches
was held at Connestee Falls with dinner on the grounds and another all-day
singing was held on Easter Sunday of 1919 on the grounds of the Brevard
Institute.  Please join us in worship as we celebrate the 150th year of Rocky
Hill Baptist Church.  We, too, will have dinner on the grounds.

 

CEDAR MOUNTAIN CANTEEN announces Community Storytelling on Friday, September 26
@ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm a year after Helene. Share your stories of love and
community resilience.  There will be a potluck dinner too. As we near the one
year anniversary of Hurricane Helene we hold in our hearts the love and
community we experienced and continue to experience.  The Canteen would not be
open if it wasn’t for all the volunteer labor, help and donations our community
provided and continues to provide.  We still have a lot to do to get back to
where we were.  We want to take a moment and celebrate how far we have come in
the past year because of our community. We are hosting an evening of
storytelling on September 26th and a community potluck.  We will be recording
the stories and will share them on our Canteen TV station.  Please join us and
share your story and listen to others as we celebrate the strength and love of
our precious village. With deep gratitude. 

The Cedar Mountain Canteen

An employee-owned cooperative

 

A “BEAR WISE” PROGRAM FROM NC WILDLIFE will be held at the Cedar Mountain
Community Center on Saturday, August 30th at 2 o’clock. Hosted by the Sequoyah
Woods Homeowners Association and the Community Center, the program is free and
open to everyone.

 

AROUND THE HOUSE by Linda Packer Young

The Cedar Mountain News broadcast can be seen on CMCTV

 https://streamyard.com/i3pxgk6ysgzp this week and can also be seen at The Cedar
 Mountain Canteen website cedarmountaincanteen.com.  Tod and I shared the Cedar
 Mountain News this last week so be sure to check it out. 

 

Excellent program at the Cedar Mountain Community Center Tuesday nite.  Habitat
for Humanity educated us on the things Habitat does to help people.  More than I
ever imagined.  Thanks Habitat.










