CEDAR MOUNTAIN NEWS FOR 8-21-25

FAITH MEMORIAL CHAPEL welcomes folks of all denominations to our services, held on Sundays at 11:00 AM.  We meet only in the summer and have no membership roll, so you won’t feel like a guest.  Each Sunday, we have clergy from different churches that visit us to lead the service and we are blessed to also have great music to accompany the great message!

On August 24th, we welcome The Rev. Dr. Keith Thompson.  Keith is Senior Pastor of Brevard-Davidson River Presbyterian Church.

This Sunday, we also welcome Jackson Collins. Jackson is a junior tenor studying Vocal Performance at Furman University. He is an active member of Furman’s choirs, including the Furman Singers and the Furman Chamber Choir. 

Thanks, Earle Oxner, earleoxner@me.com

 

AUTHENTIC INDIAN CUISINE & MORE FOR A CAUSE
Authentic Indian Cuisine & more for a Cause | SAT Aug 23 | Terra Nova Center
Join us for the EVENING PROGRAM (2:30-7:30pm) or FULL DAY (10am-7:30pm). Participating in our fundraiser event not only supports the 105-year-old Terra Nova Chapel and the dedicated artists, but it also gives you a complete experience of relaxation and renewal. Our signature program is designed to strengthen your personal growth and community bonds by combining wellness workshops with creative, health-based activities. This initiative is a unique opportunity to benefit your body, mind, and energy, bringing you a deep sense of enrichment, inner discovery, and the fulfillment of supporting a cause.

Itinerary and registration at https://www.originintegrative.com/upcoming
*Seating in the chapel is limited and available on a first-come, first-served basis. Tickets are priced to be affordable for everyone.
*Vegetarian Buffet Menu (vegan/gf options): Whole Wheat Naan, Protein Chickpea curry, Masala Dosa, Jeera Rice, Aloo Gobi, Digestive Rasam soup, Appalam, Cucumber Raita, Mango Lassi Dessert.
*Activities: Sound Bath, Food presentation & dinner, Perspectives on reality through Art, Indian Dance concert, Classical Hatha yoga, Foraged woodland design Creative workshop, Lake & Labyrinth, Hike & Thai Chi Gong by campfire.
*Artists: Yogesh Cutler, Tanamayi Vaiyapuri, Kimberly Johnson, Melissa Martin Julien, Joyce Kuhn Baila Martha Land 
*Please note: Offered as part of the full day program, the creative workshop by Melissa from properflower.com is a rare opportunity in WNC! She is gracious to include us in her schedule for the cause!

Contacts: 615-900-4320, originintegrative@gmail.com, info@terranovecenter.org

With Love, Tanamayi

150TH YEAR CELEBRATION AT HOMECOMING AT THE ROCKY HILL BAPTIST CHURCH
After several successful workdays of cleaning, painting, pressure washing, weed pulling, and de-cluttering, the Rocky Hill Baptist Church buildings and grounds are ready for our Homecoming service and lunch this Sunday, August 24th at 10:30. Fresh creamed corn and green beans, fried chicken, ham, potato salad, deviled eggs, tomato pie and marinated cucumbers are just a few of the dishes prepared for the covered dish meal. But the bragging rights are saved for the cakes, pies and puddings. Beth Owings chocolate cake, the Jones – Burns black walnut cake prepared by Randy Pace, banana pudding, coconut cake, carrot cake and German chocolate cake are just a few of the dessert favorites. Thank you to all members, visitors and volunteers for the work done to “spruce up” the place and the efforts to bring such delicious food to the table. We look forward to a special time of worship and fellowship. Come and celebrate 150 years with
Us!

A “CEDAR MOUNTAIN BAPTIST CHURCH GRIEF SHARE GROUP
Tuesdays, August 26th - November 18, 6:00-7:30 pm.  In our support group, you’ll learn helpful ways of coping with grief, to realize you have access to God’s resources and learn that God often uses tragedy and suffering to help us grow. You can register by calling 828-966-4812 or visit the website at https://www.griefshare.org/groups/268956.  
Cedar Mountain Baptist Church, 7765 Greenville Hwy, Brevard, NC 28712
Cindy Kiser, Administrative Assistant

BEAR WISE” PROGRAM FROM NC WILDLIFE will be held at the Cedar Mountain Community Center on Saturday, August 30th at 2 o’clock. Hosted by the Sequoyah Woods Homeowners Association and the Community Center, the program is free and open to everyone.

HUNGER COALITION MONTHLY FOOD DISTRIBUTION SITES
1st Thursday, Old GO Grocery parking lot (1232 Asheville Hwy), 2:30-4:00 pm.
2nd Thursday, Rosman Town Hall Pavilions, 2:30-4:00 pm.
3rd Thursday, Cedar Mountain Community Center, 2:30-4:00 pm – 8-21-25 
4th Thursday, Quebec Community Center, 2:30-4:00 pm.--

BIKE RACE
The Assault on the Carolinas, an annual fundraiser for the Pisgah Forest Rotary Club, is scheduled for Saturday, September 13th. The 50k winds through the river valleys of scenic Transylvania County, while the 100k explores the mountains and valleys of North and South Carolina. This fully supported ride features 5 well-stocked rest stops, including the Cedar Mountain Community Center on Hwy 276 (Greenville Hwy). Please be extra cautious on these roads or plan to avoid them during the race.

THE CEDAR MOUNTAIN CANTEEN announces Community Storytelling on Friday, September 26 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm a year after Helene. Share your stories of love and community resilience.  There will be a potluck dinner too.
As we near the one year anniversary of Hurricane Helene we hold in our hearts the love and community we experienced and continue to experience.  The Canteen would not be open if it wasn’t for all the volunteer labor, help and donations our community provided and continues to provide.  We still have a lot to do to get back to where we were.  We want to take a moment and celebrate how far we have come in the past year because of our community.
We are hosting an evening of storytelling on September 26th and a community potluck.  We will be recording the stories and will share them on our Canteen TV station.  Please join us and share your story and listen to others as we celebrate the strength and love of our precious village.
With deep gratitude.  
The Cedar Mountain Canteen
An employee-owned cooperative





GRIEF SUPPORT GROUP
 

CEDAR MOUNTAIN COMMUNITY CENTER – 
CHANGES TO THE SEPTEMBER CALENDAR
The Cedar Mountain Community Center has a change to the September Calendar - The Crockpot Cook-off that was scheduled for September 9 will now be held on Saturday September 27 at 6:00 pm.  The September Cedar Mountain Community Center Potluck on September 9 will host Dr. Ora Wells, he will speak on his journey through Alzheimer’s diagnosis, medications, treatments and lifestyle changes with ways to help prevent Alzheimer’s.

SHERWOOD FOREST ARBORETUM GROUP
GREAT SOUTH EAST POLLINATOR CENSUS 8-22 – 23. 
The Sherwood Forest arboretum group is encouraging participation in this fun, educational, and easy activity!  In as little as 15 minutes you can participate in this Citizen Science event to gather data on pollinators and the plants they are pollinating. This is a great activity for all ages and requires no prior experience! The data gathered helps educators, scientists, and gardeners with useful information.
To participate check out their website at https://gsepc.org for easy instructions and counting sheets.
Please help scientists study pollinators.

RENT THE CENTER
The Cedar Mountain Community Center has been beautifully restored, remodeled, and improved. It's available for rental and reservations are going fast. The center now meets handicap accessibility guidelines. Reservations can be made by calling Caroline Chambers at 828-290-9662 or at https://www.cedarmountaincommunitycenter.com/rental.

AROUND THE HOUSE by Linda Packer Young
Well I’ve managed to do some serious weeding the last few days.  I get run out with the almost daily rain showers, but managed to complete one area.  I prefer pulling weeds rather than spraying them.  You just end up with brown dead stuff that you need to remove anyway.  The Japanese grass I did spray “died” but I noticed it’s all coming up from the roots again.  It’s a very determined invasive weed.  The Maidenhair ferns have turned brown and once beautiful they now need to be “et”.  The moss is beautiful but also requires pulling individual weeds and tiny tree seedlings. It doesn’t need mowing but really needs a lot of painstaking hand weeding.  It’s work, but so pretty when cleaned up.  Having balance issues I have to sit in a lawn chair to weed.  I just move the chair forward as needed.

Please note that the deadline to submit articles for the Cedar Mountain News is Monday night. Let me know If your contribution will be later.  Email cedarmountainnews@gmail.com with all news.  Photos are welcome and need to be 900kb or more to be used in the paper.  Please do not send PDF files.  Word doc or JPG only.

